# Other uses of historia

## Subsection

Although it is tempting to summarize the ἱστορία scholia as simply notes which tell mythological stories at length, once we take a closer look at their corpus significant exceptions become apparent. Along with expanding on a myth alluded to in the Iliad text, the ἱστορία scholia can refer to an authoritative source to defend material in the text as legitimately Homeric. For example, in a scholion commenting on 10.274, we see a potential debate on why Athena sends an ερωδιὸς to Diomedes and Odysseus during their night raid. The scholiast begins with the adverb εἰκότως to emhasize that this action is suitable for the story and gives a description of the lifestyle of an ερωδιὸς to show how its habits of hunting in marshy territory are similar to the heroes’ actions. The source cited for this note is none other than Aristotle’s Περὶ Ζωΐων, which certainly is not a conventional mythological source and demonstrates how these scholia are not limited to mythological sources when it comes to defending Homeric material. Rather than retelling a myth, this scholion has relied on a work of animal biology to explain potentially confusing content. 

The ἱστορία scholia can also be used to defend certain grammatical decisions as befitting the types of story Homer would have known. For example, in a note on 1.396, the scholiast cites Aristarchus when discussing that the pronoun σεο must be enclicitc to refer to Achilles’ father (Peleus) rather than Thetis’ (Nereus), with the logic being that Homer never mentions any story of Achilles living in Nereus’ halls. Similarly, a scholion for 2.865 refers to Chiron and Diodorus when discussing the origin of Mesthles and Antiphus. These writers apparently read the line as saying these characters were born at the Gygean Lake instead of the Aristachan reading where they are literally the children of the lake personified as a goddess. Chiron and Diodorus’ argument is that Homer never discusses stories where lakes have children (μηδέποτε γὰρ Ὅμηρον λημνῶν τέκνα ἱστορεῖν), to which the scholiast claims that they do violence to the text. These examples give insight in how the concept of ἱστορία affects reading of the Iliad text, as ancient scholars were careful to choose words and phrases which belonged to stories that fit in with Homer’s mythological corpus. 

It also appears that ἱστορία can be used to explain geographic features and names to help the reader understand certain landmarks mentioned in the text. A key example of this is a scholion for 14.299 discussing Mt. Athos as Hera flies over it. Rather than telling a conventional myth, the scholiast actually refers to Herodotus’ story of the Persian king Xerxes constructing a canal near this location. This information would apparently be helpful for the reader to understand how the geography would have been different at the time of the Trojan War, or perhaps it simply shows the significance of Mt. Athos by showing how it appears in another popular work.  

One of the longest ἱστορία scholia in the Venetus A demonstrates how the scholiast can refer back to a backstory simply to dismiss it as unneeded for the understanding of the Iliad. Commenting on 1.5, the scholion explains what is meant by “The Plan of Zeus” and gives a marvelous story from Stasinus explaining that Zeus orchestrated the Trojan War to decrease the number of humans who were weighing down on Gaea and causing her pain. However, after telling this story at length, the scholiast then uses a rare first person verb to explain that he agrees with the opinion of Aristarchus and Aristophanes, which is that Zeus’ plan simply refers to him fulfilling Thetis’ plea as the Iliad itself explains. This is significant because it shows that the idea of ἱστορία can be used to defend the legitimacy of the text not only to link it to established stories, but also to contrast with them and show that Homer’s work can stand on its own without relying on other sources. 

These examples of ἱστορία are evident that this topic of scholarly interest extends beyond elaborating on stories alluded to in the Iliad. The scholiast is focused on defending Homer’s work and uses this particular category of scholia to show why certain stories are Homeric or not. While the majority of these scholia are dedicated to elaborating on established myths, they can reach out to even scientific sources like Aristotle to demonstrate why certain events in the Iliad are suitable for the story. Other ἱστορία scholia defend grammatical choices of the scribe since even a slight change may refer to a story that Homer does not refer to. While the general idea of ἱστορία still seems to answer potential questions the reader may have, these are not limited to inquiries about myths, but rather can extend to matters of why the scribe has chosen a particular reading over another. 
