
**Luke Giuntoli: tutorial prospectus**

I am proposing a tutorial with Professor Smith will build a foundation for a senior project on the “Mythological World of the Scholia;” that is, the stories, characters, and authors that are preserved in the scholia of *Iliad* manuscripts.

As Karl Dindorf recognized in his *Scholia Graeca in Homeri Iliadem* (1875), the scholia that are most important for this research are those featuring forms of either the verb ἱστορέω or the noun ἱστορία. These technical terms typically appear when the scholiast wishes to provide a backstory for a part of the text that requires further elaboration. Some examples include explaining an ambiguous epithet, giving further details on a story that is only briefly alluded to, or even correcting the actual poem at times with a different account of a particular myth.  We know that the "ready explanation of stories" (ἱστοριῶν πρόχειρος ἀπόδοσις) was considered by Dionysius of Thrace as one of the essential parts of the work literary scholar's work.  In many cases, the discussion in the scholia originates with Dionysius' teacher, Aristarchus of Samothrace.  I am currently working on submitting this part of my work as part of a panel proposal on "The Art of the Scholar of Letters" for the Classical Association of New England's spring meeting, together with Professor Smith, Professor Graeme Bird (Gordon College) and Sophia Sarro '21.

I also plan to build on experience I gained working as a research associate wtih Professor Smith last summer to apply topic modeling to the text of the scholia.  As a complement to the close reading of passages focuses on ἱστορίαι, this might allow us to find other scholia touch on similar content.

I have already begun categorizing the mythological scholia by the chronology and genre of authors associated with particular stories.  I am interested in adding to this a further geographic dimension that identifies the mythological landscape or setting for the stories..  Professors Scott Smith (University of New Hampshire) and Greta Hawes (Australian National University) have expressed interest in coordinating their project MANTO (https://www.manto-myth.org/) with my work using the digital editions fo the Homer Multitext project.

Beyond studying the Iliadic scholia in their own terms, I hope to compare the stories that appear in the scholia with those in Apollodorus’ Βιβλιοθήκη.  I want to not only how the narratives do or do not differ, but also how the language used to present the stories differs in vocabulary and grammar. I hope that the distinctions that arise will give us better insight into the different methods for recounting myths between a mythological handbook and a scholarly companion to an established work.
