When we refer to “The Mythological World of the Scholia,” we refer to the scholia that tell a backstory expanding on ideas presented in the Iliad text. Looking at our digital edition of the Venetus A manuscript, we were able to identify these scholia by searching for variants of the noun ἱστορία and the verb ἱστορέω, both of which indicate that a background is being provided for something mentioned in the text. My strategy has been to go through the scholia including these terms and first identify what story is being told, then seeing if it appears in the mythological handbooks of Apollodorus and Hyginus. The differences observed in the scholia backstories compared to more “standard” mythological versions will give us an idea of how mythology was viewed in a scholarly context as opposed to general storytelling. In this case, the stories chosen by the scholiast are meant to help a reader make sense of the Homeric text when it may not be entirely clear. Since my primary objective was to see how ancient scholars interacted with myths, I chose to limit my focus to primary sources: the contents of the Venetus A and the mythological works of Apollodorus and Hyginus. 

My focus was also influenced by my work at CANE with Professor Neel Smith, Professor Graeme Bird, and Sophia Sarro as we examined the literary analyses of Dionysius Thrax. Dionysius specifically identifies the idea of ἱστορία as a concern to scholars, demonstrating how important it was in the ancient understanding of literary criticism. By examining the sources used by scholars that no longer survive, we can gauge which authors and works were deemed acceptable for scholarly arguments. Also, by searching through different types of ἱστορία scholia, I would be able to see whether or not they always lined up with my preconceived notions of them as mythical retellings. 
