The first challenge for my thesis, “The Mythological World of the Scholia,” was to find a way to narrow down scholia content that had a particular focus on mythic traditions. Professor Smith showed me how early pages of the Venetus A manuscript feature marks that indicate when a scholion discusses a ἱστορία, or simply put, a backstory. After analyzing a list of Venetus A scholia featuring either the word ἱστορία or the verb ἱστορέω (“to give a backstory”), we now needed to find a way to sort our data. When examining the placement of these scholia throughout the text, many appear in the first two books; this seems fairly straightforward since the introduction to the story and characters would likely benefit from further explanation. However, the ending of the Iliad does not feature additional ἱστορία scholia to explain what happens after the events of the poem. This reinforces the idea that the chief purpose of the scholia is to authenticate the material of the poem as authentically Homeric, while the other works of the Epic Cycle are not a concern. 

Many ἱστορία scholia cite a particular author or work from which the mythic variant originates, so I sorted authors that appear in the scholia by time period and genre, as well as on what lines of the text their scholia commented on. Now that we had a list of authors, it seemed appropriate to examine which scholia contained the chronologically earliest authors, including Hesiod, Stasinus, and the group of poets simply referred to as οἱ ἀρχαῖοι. These scholia typically appeared to explain phrases and epithets in the Iliad text that may require further explanation, such as why the events of the poem are referred to as “The will of Zeus” or why Nestor is described as Geranian. 

A particularly fascinating scholion citing Hesiod described Sarpedon as the son of Zeus and Europa, despite the Iliad itself identifying him as the son of Zeus and Laodamia. We thought it would be helpful to compare the mythological content of the scholia to that of the mythographers Apollodorus and Hyginus; Hyginus identifies Sarpedon solely as the son of Zeus and Europa while Apollodorus cites both versions for his mother’s identity. Apollodorus even includes the detail that Zeus allowed Sarpedon to live for three mortal generations, thereby explaining how he could be a contemporary of Minos as well as a participant in the Trojan War.

This fascinating difference in genealogy has inspired me to compare the rest of our ἱστορία scholia to the contents of Apollodorus and Hyginus to see if other discrepancies arise. I hope to use topic modeling to lay out a clear map of which characters, authors, and places figures in these scholia relate to. Professor Smith has reached out to the leaders of the MANTO Project to see if we might be able to access their Apollodorus data as well as share research strategies. Hopefully, this research will result in an easily accessible dataset for the unique views of myth displayed in the Iliad scholia. 
 
