As we can see, the primary function of the ἱστορία scholia is to allow the reader to make sense of the story as they read through it. While there is significant overlap with more standard myth retellings found in Apollodorus and Hyginus, the scholiast gears his retellings towards the issue of the text he comments on. These scholia give us valuable insight into what sources the scholiasts used and considered appropriate for supporting their arguments, and as we have seen there does not seem to be a barrier for what kind of work may be cited. While I originally thought that ἱστορία would refer only to mythology, we see that it truly can be about multiple sorts of backstories. While the vast majority of ἱστορία scholia in the manuscripts concern myths, that’s likely an inevitable result of the Iliad itself being a work of what we would call mythology. 

ἱστορία is an important focus in the manuscript because it is essential for the reader’s comprehension of the text. You can imagine how much more convenient it is to just look for a note on the page for background information instead of trying to consult an entirely different work. Notes like these helped keep the Iliad accessible for centuries even after its long history of being passed down orally.

For scholars, ἱστορία is essential for allowing the reader to understand the text. Perhaps most importantly, linking sections of the Iliad to established mythic narratives helped to prove the correctness of the Homeric text by showing that, in the mind of the scholiast, Homer was referring to legitimate versions of stories that appear elsewhere. Or to contrast those stories with the story of the Iliad, in case of the will of Zeus where we don’t seem to need a backstory to help us understand. Thus, the ἱστορία scholia serve to defend the logic of Homer’s original story and help the audience understand it. 

When I began this project, I hypothesized that the mythological world of the scholia would match up as closely as possible with the mythological world of the Iliad text as part of the scribe's task to prove the veracity of Homer. However, certain scholia such as those regarding Sarpedon and Pegasus contradict this theory by seemingly contradicting the text. For example, Sarpedon in the Iliad is described as the king of Lycia and the son of Laodamia, the scholiast instead gives a backstory citing him as Cretan and the son of Europa. Although the Pegasus scholion does not directly say that the creature belongs in the scholion, its presence indicates that it is strange that the horse has no presence in the Iliad. This indicates to me that, in a sense, the scholiast would be undertaking an impossible task by attempting to create a definite version of mythology. Since these stories by their very nature do not have asingle correct version, it is inevitable that versions present in the scholia will differ from the Iliadic tradition. 
