
# Early Sources Cited 

To look at the earliest available sources using ἱστορία and ἱστορέω, I focused on scholia attributed to Hesiod, Stasinus, and the authors of the epic cycles.

Some scholia from these early authors explain a word or phrase that may be not be elaborated on in the text. For example, a scholion commenting on 2.336 explains why Nestor is referred to as Geranian despite ruling Pylos: he was raised in Gerenia while his father Neleus lived in Pylos with his other sons. However, Nestor’s whole family was killed when Heracles sacked the city. This scholion also includes the fascinating detail that Neleus’ son Periclymenus managed to actually battle Heracles in the form of a bee, though his efforts were futile. Another scholion attributed to Stasinus, the alleged author of the Cypria, comments on 1.5 and attempts to explain the words “Διὸς βουλὴν” in the opening lines of the Iliad. The scholion recounts how there were so many people roaming the earth it actually caused Gaea pain, so to ease her suffering Zeus engineered the Trojan War to kill off a substantial number of the human race; in this respect, the events of the Iliad do indeed happen according to the will of Zeus. Lastly, a scholion from 23.660 attributed to the poets of the Epic Cycle clarifies why Apollo is cited as the god who grants strength to boxers: Phorbas was an arrogant boxer who forced passersby to fight him to the death, until Apollo himself killed him in a boxing match and became known as the god of boxing.

Other scholia simply provide more mythological details on stories not fully explained in the text. A scholion commenting on 6.35 credits Hesiod along with Demetrius for a story involving Achilles’ capture of the city Pedasus. The Achaeans attacked the city since it was an ally of Troy, but during the conflict a young girl who lived in the city fell in love with Achilles and threw an apple towards him inscribed with a message declaring her feelings. She also provided the Achaeans with water, which was apparently scarce in the area. Α scholion from 18.486 credits the poets of the Epic Cycle as a whole and is a general guide for the origins of the constellations: the Pleiades as the daughters of Atlas, Orion as a mighty hunter and companion of Artemis, and Ursa Major and Ursa Minor as two people who prayed to the gods to be saved from danger (no direct mention of the popular story of Callisto).

The most fascinating mythological scholia to me are those that appear to outright contradict information given in the text. A brief scholion attributed to “οἱ ἀρχαῖοι” from 1.392 mentions that the name Briseis is actually her patronymic; her real name is either Astynome or Hippodamia. A scholion from 12.307 credited to Hesiod and Bacchylides tells the famous abduction of Europa by Zeus in the form of a bull. The main function of this scholion is to explain that Sarpedon is described as ἀντίθεον since he is the son of Zeus. However, this scholion appears to identify the character Sarpedon in the Iliad as the Cretan son of Zeus Europa despite the poem itself making him the Lycian son of Zeus and Laodamia. It is unclear whether the scholiast is trying to connect different narratives or simply confused two characters with the same name and divine parent. Another potential disagreement with the text comes from a scholion crediting Stasinus appearing at 16.140. At first glance, it simply provides a backstory for Achilles’ spear as a wedding gift to Peleus at his wedding to Thetis. While the poem itself identifies it as a gift from the centaur Chiron, the scholion mentions Athena and Hephaistos as other possible creators.

All of these scholia are meant to clarify potential questions or at least offer more backstory on aspects of the Iliad which may be confusing without outside knowledge. Seeing which stories appear in scholia may indicate which ones are less likely to have been common knowledge to the average reader (the stories of Phorbas and Achilles' conquest of Pedasus were certainly new to me). I am intrigued that, while scholists typically strive to prove the veracity of Homer, some of these scholia seem to contradict what the poem tells us (Briseis' name, Sarpedon’s backstory, who made Achilles’ spear). This just seems to prove that, even in this more specific scholiastic view of myth, these stories still exist in countless forms and do not have one "official" version. However, by referencing works as early as these, perhaps the scholiasts believe they are adding more legitimacy to their notes by reaching back to the possible roots of various stories.

