When examining the authors who are referenced in these scholia, it is noticeable that while a wide array of genres (epic, lyric, history) appear amongst those who date before Aristarchus, those who come after tend to be chiefly scholarly (Herodian, Harpocration) or mythological (Apollodorus, Quintus Smyrnaeus) in nature. This may indicate that the older authors form a kind of larger canon of sources to choose from, while the scribes preferred to draw from closely related sources for more recnet authors. 

It is also interesting to note that the characters and stories who appear form a diverse group that cannot be easily generalized. While they of course need some connection to the Iliad text to appear in the scholia, it can be rather loose such as a genealogy or place name. In general, characters who appear in many myths of Apollodorus and Hyginus will appear in more scholia, so a character like Heracles is featured often despite not physically appearing in the Iliad. While most of these stories are found in mythology handbooks, the version presented in the scholia will often be more focused to explain the particular aspect of the text it’s commenting on. 

Although ἱστορία/ἱστορέω scholia appear throughout the entirety of the Iliad, they are most heavily clustered together in Books I and II. This seems to make sense from a narrative level: the story begins in media res and the scribe must have thought some general backstory on the plot and characters would be helpful. However, these scholia less frequently as the story progresses, indicating either less of a need to elaborate on backstories or perhaps simple scribal fatigue. The scholia that do appear for the rest of the manuscript are generally geared towards explaining confusing epithets or phrases as well as recounting myths concerning specific people and places. This would reflect different functions of these scholia, with those that appear early on telling general backstory for the events of the story while those in the following sections are more geared towards explaining broadly confusing aspects of the text. Interestingly, while a great deal is made to give the reader insight on what events happened before the poem, there are no scholia at the end to describe what happens afterwards (i.e. the death of Achilles, the fall of Troy, etc.) This may indicate that while the scholarly tradition thought the beginning of the story was too confusing without elaboration in the notes, the ending of the poem was seen as a complete ending without lingering questions. Another possibility is that scholia describing events after the story do indeed occur in the manuscript, but were not part of our data because they do not include ἱστορία/ἱστορέω since these technically would not be backstories to the Iliad. 
